# Email-Sender-Classification

## Dataset Description:
The Enron Corpus dataset is a large database of over 500,000 emails generated by around 150 employees of the Enron Corporation. The data 
consisted of inconsistencies and so we used the Enron dataset version compiled by William W. Cohen, in which large number of repeated
messages were removed. The overall size of this version is 1.77 GB. The data consists of emails presented in the form of text files in 
different folders.

Download dataset from https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~enron/

## Data Extraction
Data Extraction plays an important part in the processing step as we need to convert the unstructured data into structured format for ease
in processing and generation of new features. Data Extraction plays an important part in the processing step as we need to convert the 
unstructured data into structured format for ease in processing and generation of new features. We extracted the content of text files and
made a csv file which consisted of folder location of email and email details. Then, we created a csv which separated all email content 
into various columns based on their tag (X-From, X-To,bcc, cc etc).

Run Data_Extraction.ipynb to extract from raw text files.

## Data Preprocessing
Email content have a lot of inconsistencies which include email chains. Email chains create a lot of repetitive data. Removal of these can
lead to content of the email being empty if the user has only forwarded the email. We first removed the email chains from the content.
Since our feature extraction is based on content of the email, we also removed all emails that have no content.

Code for data preprocessing is in processing.py
